- [Instructor] Changes introduced in Java 12
were primarily focused on improvements to the JVM
but the release did bring some new language features
that we'll explore.
Like the last release, Java 12 introduced new methods
to the string class
and that's where we're going to get started.
Indent was one of the new methods added
to string in Java 12.
When we invoke the indent method,
you'll see that it accepts an integer as an argument.
This integer will determine the number
of spaces added to the beginning of each line
of our string.
Basically, we're going to be prefixing white space
to the beginning of each line of the string.
It's pretty obvious Java 12's indent method
is much easier than writing your own implementation.
Moving on, we're going to take a look
at the new transform method on the string class in Java 12.
If we look at our implementation,
you'll see that we take a function
and a string and then we invoke the apply method
on the function
and pass in the string as an argument.
This causes the function to be applied to the string.
When we use the transform method on the string type,
you'll see it's a little bit different.
In this case, we're going to be passing in the function
to the transform method on the String type.
And this will cause the function to be applied
to the string.
Now, there's a couple more points I'd like to highlight
about these methods.
So I'm going to head over to our unit test.
First, the indent method standardizes the line endings
on a string.
New line characters will be added to each line
of the string.
This includes strings that only contain a single line.
So you will see that I strip out these characters
when performing the assertion in our unit tests.
Second, the indent method allows us
to provide negative numbers as arguments.
This will cause the leading white space
from a string to be moved.
If we take a look at our transformTest,
you'll notice that the transform method
on String allows us to supply lambda functions
in order to modify our string.
Okay, with this in place I'm going to go ahead
and execute our unit tests, which successfully passes.
From there, we're going to move to take a look
at a change made to the files object in Java 12.
So I'll open up the associated class and its unit test.
And here within the FilesFeatures class,
you'll notice the mismatch method.
Let's talk a little bit about what this does.
Here we read the contents of two files.
And then we iterate through those contents character
by character and we compare the characters
to look for a mismatch.
If we find a mismatch,
we return the position of the mismatch.
However, if the contents of the files are the same,
we simply return -1 to indicate that.
Now, in Java 12, we can perform this sort
of comparison in one line,
so I'm going to go ahead
and I'm going to remove all this code
and then we're going to use the Files object
and it's mismatch method
in order to perform this functionality.
You'll notice that the mismatch method requires us
to supply the path to two files.
So I'm going to use the toPath method
on our files, which are supplied as arguments here.
And that will satisfy the contract
for the mismatch method.
And now the contents of these two files will be compared.
So let's head over to our unit test
where we compare the contents of the files
and I'm going to kick off the tests
and we can see that they pass.
Okay, now let's take a look at the new teeing collector,
which has been added to the Streams API.
So we'll open up the class and its test.
And let's talk a little bit about our getRange method.
So you can see that it accepts a list of integers
and then I use the minBy collector
in order to find the minimum value
within that list of integers.
On a similar note, I then use the maxBy collector
in order to find the maximum number
in that list of integers.
We then build out a function
that's going to return a string,
which will provide the min
and max of our list in the format min-max.
We take this function
and we pass in the value returned by our collectors
in order to create that string of min-max.
So essentially, we have two collectors
and a function.
And this is exactly what the teeing collector does.
So let's go ahead and we're going to remove this code.
So we're going to take our list of integers
and we're going to stream that list
and then use the collect method
and on the Collectors object,
we'll find our new teeing collector
and if we take a look at the teeing method we used
to construct the teeing collector,
you'll notice that it's going to accept a collector
for the first argument,
a collector for the second argument
and then a lambda function for the third argument.
So let's go ahead and provide those
and I'm going to add them
on a single line because it's easier to follow that way.
Okay, so the first thing we'll do is use the minBy collector
and we're going to use the compare method
on the integer type
in order to find the minimum value
within our list of integers.
So there's our first collector.
Now, let's go ahead, we'll supply the second collector,
which is going to be maxBy
and once again, we'll use the compare method
on the integer object.
So now we need to provide a lambda function.
This lambda function is going to receive two arguments
and those arguments are going to be the results returned
by the collectors that we provided
in the previous two parameters.
So we're going to get the min and the max.
And then within our lambda function,
we need to specific some logic
for what to do with those parameters.
In our case, we're looking to return a string
and that string has the format of the min dash
and then the max.
So we're just going to create a parametrized string
and then we'll need to pass in the parameters.
So I'll pass in the min
and then I'll pass in the max.
And then here, I've just got to make a small tweak
to our format method.
And now we can go ahead and import the minBy collector,
as well as the maxBy collector.
Okay, so we'll go ahead and save this class
and then we'll navigate over to the unit test
and we can confirm that our new teeing collector
did in fact return the min and max of our list of integers.
Okay, let's go ahead and take a look
at our final Java 12 feature
and that's the CompactNumberFormat.
So I'll open those classes
and the first thing we're going to do
is take a look at the unit test
because it does a good job of explaining
what the CompactNumberFormat does.
So you'll notice,
we have a rather large number, one million.
And the CompactNumberFormat is going to reduce that number
to a shorthand format.
So here we see a string of 1M.
Now, there's different variants
of using the CompactNumberFormat.
Here you see we're able to provide a locale,
as well as a number format style
and that's going to cause us to get a little bit different
of a shorthand format for the number one million.
So let's see how we can put this in place.
Within our NumberFormatFeatures class,
you see we have two methods
and we still have to provide the implementations of them.
So on the NumberFormat object,
you're going to find the getCompactNumberInstance method
and that's going to return an instance
of a NumberFormat
and then we simply invoke the format method
and pass in the number we'd like to format.
So that's its simplest form.
Now, if we want to get a little bit more complex with it,
we can use a different method,
the getCompactNumberInstance method
that accepts a locale, as well as a style.
And we're just going to go ahead
and pass those in to the getCompactNumberInstance method
and then we'll invoke the format method,
passing in the number we'd like to format.
And that will cause that number
to be formatted in the locale and style we provided.
All right, now let's go ahead
and we'll kick off our unit tests
and we can see that they pass.
So that was a look at some very useful features
that have been added to Java 12.
In addition, Java 12 introduced many improvements
to the JVM, such as changes to the G1 garbage collector
and it also introduced the new Shenandoah garbage collector.